---
title: 'Dilemna of the broke audiophile'
date: '2023-09-04'
---

I love music. I'm also broke. I care a lot about the quality of audio I'm listening: I want to hear every instrument and feel fully immersed in the music, but it's widely known that good audio quality is expensive. Right? Not exactly. There is an abundance of incredible sounding audio equipment that you can get for surprisingly cheap, as long as you know what to look for. Along with this, repurposing older technology can allow you to stream high fidelity music relatively inexpensively. 

The first thing I'll look at is the music itself. Along with 550 million people, I use Spotify for most of my music. It's a great way to discover new songs, and generally to have access to the largest library of music of any streaming service. However, Spotify is not perfect. It lacks the ability to stream Hi-Fi music, and it doesn't seem like we are going to have this ability for a while. In recent years, people have been turning towards vinyl as a way to listen to Hi-Fi music. I love the idea of physically owning your music, but vinyl is way too expensive, with individual albums costing upwards of $20 dollars. Instead, I have returned to CDs, which are arguably the highest quality source of music that you can get. There's a good chance you already have a large collection of CDs at home, as they only went out of style a few years ago. And buying CDs is quite affordable, with new copies selling for around $10 dollars. I personally have been slowly building up my collection with some of my favorite albums.

The next thing you need is something to play your music on. Most people, myself included, primarily listen to music on a smartphone. This works great for Spotify, and if you don't care about Hi-Fi, your phone is the only music player you need. Audio quality will be mostly dependent on your headphones, which I'm going to talk about in the next section. As for my CDs, I like to listen to them on an old CD walkman. It works great, and preserves the quality of the audio really well. They are also really cheap, and you can pick up a used player for around $50 bucks. Equipment for playing audio is one of the areas where you have to cut a few corners when on a budget. If you have cash to spare, invest in a good DAC for the best audio. 

The last thing you need to listen to music is some kind of output. This is the place where you can typically get ripped off. The best advice I can give you is stay away from big name brands like Bose and Sony. You can get the same, if not better, sound quality from smaller brands that specialize in equipment intended specifically for music production. I recently discovered the large market of IEMs (In Ear Monitors), earphones which are used by professional musicians on stage. They deliver high quality audio, and can be really cheap. I recently got a pair of KZ ZST monitors for only $20 dollars, which is incredible value. When using them with an iPhone, the lightning to headphone jack converter is good enough to convert digital information into a high quality analog output.

Obviously, spending more money will greatly improve you listening experience. But you can get really good audio relatively inexpensively if you know what to look for. I recommend turning to experts like Crinacle for good recommendations on what gear to get. Overall I am really happy with my current audio setup, and I feel great knowing that I didn't have to give up one of my vital organs for it.